# Mocking Apollo Client

It is very useful to be able to build a client side app in isolation of the server. That way you can focus on the user interaction before you spend time developing the back end. Also it is just one less server to spin up if you are developing locally.

We use Apollo Client as a front end consumer of GraphQL endpoints. Apollo makes it very easy to setup [client side mocking](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-tools/mocking.html) with minimal code added. This article demonstrates how you can use a few Apollo/GraphQL libraries to hook up a simple client side mocking solution.

## Example

To start with we need to define our type definitions. This is essentially just a type map of what we expect our server to look like. In this example, we are describing a blogging server. It has a query to retrieve the top posts available which contain data like the title of the post, the author who wrote it and the number of views.

``` javascript
const typeDefs = `
  type User {
    id: Int
    name: String
    posts(limit: Int): [Post]
  }

  type Post {
    id: Int
    title: String
    views: Int
    author: User
  }

  type Query {
    aString: String
    aBoolean: Boolean
    anInt: Int
    author(id: Int): User
    topPosts(limit: Int): [Post]
  }
`;
```

Next we can make use of some nice tools that are made available in the `graphql-tools` library. We take our type definitions and make into a graphql schema.

``` javascript
import { makeExecutableSchema } from 'graphql-tools';

const schema = makeExecutableSchema({ typeDefs });
```

Now we have a schema we can add a bunch of mock functions to it. The nice thing about GraphQL (and all typed schemes) is that they are really easy to mock. We already know what the types of all the entries are, so we can just supply random values that satisfy the types. `graphql-tools` also supplies a nice method to take this schema and give it these mocks.

``` javascript
import { addMockFunctionsToSchema } from 'graphql-tools';

addMockFunctionsToSchema({ schema });
```

Unfortunately, the implementation of this method is not functional. It just modifies the schema object which we created previously and returns a null value.

There's one last step before we have a mocked server. We need to tell the Apollo client to send all of it's requests to our schema rather than the actual server that will be used in production. The last cool package which allows us to do this is `apollo-test-utils`. This ships a function which generates an Apollo `NetworkInterface` based on our schema.


``` javascript
import { mockNetworkInterfaceWithSchema } from 'apollo-test-utils';

const mockNetworkInterface = mockNetworkInterfaceWithSchema({ schema });
```

Awesome! Now we have a network interface that we can slot into our Apollo client whenever we want to pretend to be a server:

``` javascript
import { ApolloClient } from 'react-apollo';

const client = new ApolloClient({ networkInterface });
```

## More cool stuff

The example showed us how to create a mock server which gives dummy data of the same type that is expected. But what if we want to provide a better formed set of dummy data for our implementation. For example we want to use real peoples names in the example above. We can do this with the optional mock argument supplied to `addMockFunctionsToSchema`.

``` javascript
import faker from 'faker';

const mocks = {
  // Here you could customize the mocks.
  // If you leave it empty, the default is used.
  String: () => faker.name.findName()
};

addMockFunctionsToSchema({ schema, mocks });
```

[Faker](https://github.com/FotoVerite/Faker.js) is a cool library which creates random mocking data, we can use it to generate names. Now every time a String type is encountered, it will return a random name.

There's heaps more cool ways you can mock data. See more in the Apollo docs on [customizing mocks](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-tools/mocking.html#Customizing-mocks).
